Satyam Patel

Implementation Consultant

lam a detail-oriented professional with a love for automation, history, and language, seeking to apply my combined expertise in
Software Engineering and Business Analysis. My understanding that automation will reshape all industries informs my
forward-thinking approach. My goal is to be a versatile, skilled, and confident contributor in any team. With an unyielding drive
for learning and adaptation, | am prepared to make meaningful contributions in a role as an Implementation Consultant.

Whitehall, PA e (484)-788-5197 ¢ patelsatyam100@gmail.com

EDUCATION:
Lehigh University- Bethlehem, PA Graduated: May 2023
Major: Computer Science and Business

SKILLS: Machine Learning, Agile Principles, Microsoft Office (Excel, PowerPoint, PowerBl), Database Management (SQL, MySQL),
Java, Web Development (JavaScript/TS, HTML, CSS), Python, Tax, RESTful API

WORK EXPERIENCE:

Full-Stack Software Engineering Intern Sep 2022 — Jan 2023
Balanced Tiger

+ Developed a retail prediction system using Springboot and MySQL, leveraging a user-friendly web

interface to visualize data.

+ Utilized TensorFlow to create machine learning models that forecast product demand and

customer behavior based on historical data, improving inventory management, and enhancing

customer experience.

+ Implemented MongoDB as a NoSQL database to store unstructured data, facilitating greater

flexibility and scalability.
Business Analyst Intern June 2021 - Aug 2021
KPMG Prague

+ Conducted extensive industry research and developed detailed reports on the global advancement

of the Telecommunications department, particularly in the field of 5G connectivity, aiding strategic

decision-making for key stakeholders.

+ Leveraged data analytics with MS PowerBI to anticipate market trends and provide strategic

recommendations for client investment, leading to enhanced market preparedness and competitive

positioning.

+ Collaborated with cross-functional teams to align investment strategies with market trends and

client objectives, fostering a unified approach to achieving business goals.
Accounting Intern June 2019 - Aug 2019
B.P. & Associates

+ Leveraged Quickbooks and GNUCash to generate pay-stubs and paychecks for various companies in

the Lehigh Valley region, enhancing their payroll management efficiency.

+ Assessed and recorded income tax, self-employment tax, and excise tax calculations for diverse

companies, ensuring accurate tax compliance.

RELATED EXPERIENCES: (also on https://sbpatel.dev)
‘History-Walker’ App: Full-Stack History Project
e Developed a Docker-based web application for interactive history timeline.
e@ Utilized a microservices architecture with a Python backend and a MySQL database.
e Used the FastAPI framework in Python backend for rapid RESTful API development and performance.
e Leveraged Docker Compose for the configuration and orchestration of the multi-container application.

Al-Driven Stock Portfolio Manager: GPT-Inspired Project
e Designed and developed an Al-powered stock portfolio management system using Python, leveraging libraries such as
TensorFlow, Pandas, Langchain and OpenAl to provide an in-depth analysis of stocks and associated markets.
Utilized a microservices architecture with a Python backend and a MySQL database.
Used the FastAPI framework in Python backend for rapid RESTful API development and performance.
e Leveraged Docker Compose for the configuration and orchestration of the multi-container application.

CLUBS/ORGANIZATIONS:
South Asian Students Association (SASA) - Lehigh University May 2021 - May 2022
President

@ Worked alongside the executive board including the 200+ members to promote South Asian culture through
campus-wide events such as Diwali, Holi, and Garba.
© Collaborated with other cultural clubs in major events throughout both semesters.

Creatives of Lehigh (Photography Club) - Lehigh University May 2020 - Jan 2022
Co-Founder

e Assisted in creating the club constitution and creating links to other clubs and college organizations.

e Planned creative photography events for increased community building and connections.
